In this lecture we will dig deeper into the topic of color as we look at more ways that we can specify
color using C Ss some built in color related keywords and some of the basic concepts of color theory
color is extremely important in web development as it can make or break the aesthetic of your web page.
Some of the color names that you can use in CSSA have other keyword counterparts that specify the same
color.
For example magenta and fuchsia are keywords for the same color for this example we will add to paragraph
elements to our Web page.
The first will have an idea of magenta text and the second will have an idea of fuchsia text.
Next we will add an opening and closing style tag to our Web page.
We will give the element with an idea of magenta text the color of magenta and the element with an idea
fuchsia text we will give a color of fuchsia.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
as you can see both of our text elements are the exact same color as magenta and fuchsia both refer
to the same color.
Let's jump back to the editor Additionally auction saw and are also keywords for the same color.
Let's change the IDs of our elements to aqua text and saw in text respectively.
Then we will use these IDs and give the elements their proper colors and our style code.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code to see the result of these changes.
As you can see both of the text elements are the same color.
This is because aqua and cyan both refer to the same color.
Let's go back to the editor.
Also note that there are two spellings of gray g r e y and G R A Y are both acceptable.
To illustrate this using our current code architecture we will give our first text element an idea of
grey text spelled out g r e y.
Our second paragraph element will have an idea of grey text spelled out G.R. a y we will use these ideas
and give our first element the color of gray g r e y.
And our second element the color of gray G R A Y.
Let's go to the web browser and vote our code as you can see both of the text elements are the color
gray.
Let's go back to the editor
aside from color names.
CSSA gives us two main color related keywords that we can use to our advantage transparent and current
color the transparent keyword specifies a fully transparent color.
The same effect can be achieved by setting the value of a color that is zero.
For this example we will have one paragraph element on our Web page with some example text then we will
give our text the color of transparent.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see our text is not visible on the web page
since we gave it a color of transparent.
Let's jump back to the editor.
The current color gives us the current value of n elements color property.
If we set the color property to a color value we can use the current color keyword to specify that same
color to another property.
Let's change the color of our text to green then we will add the background color property to a paragraph
element and give it a value of current color.
This will make the background color of our element green.
Let's run our code in the web browser to see the result.
As you can see both the text color and background color green using the current color keyword allowed
us to use the current color of text which is green as the background color for our text.
Let's jump back to the editor.
Let's take a look at some of the basic ideas of color theory as this will lead into more CSSA scripting
material.
There are three main color systems R G B C M Y and R Y B.
But we will cover R G B and C and Y in this tutorial.
Primary colors are the main base colors in a color system that can be mixed to form every other color
the primary colors and the R.G. be color system or red green and blue.
And the primary colors in CM y are cyan magenta and yellow secondary colors are created by mixing two
primary colors tertiary colors are created by mixing two secondary colors.
Aside from the hex codes that we looked at there are also three and four digit hex codes for color code
has repeat values for the R G or B digits.
We can combine them into a three digit hex code.
For example the hex color code for red is faffed 0 0 0 0 0.
We can condense this into a three digit hex code recognized by CSX the three digit hex code would be
EF 0 0.
Let's give our a hex color of x 0 0.
Then we will run our code in the web browser or see the result
as you can see our text is the color red the 2 x 4 the read value were condensed to 1 to 2 0 for the
green value were condensed into one and the two zeros for the blue value were condensed into one.
Let's go back to the editor
this concept can also be applied to the alpha channel as well and turn into a four digit hex code.
Let's add a trailing zero to the current color and then run our code in the web browser.
As you can see our text has disappeared.
This is because that last zero we added at the end of our hex color represents the alpha value which
is zero in this case making our text invisible.
We will go back to the editor and look at another example.
There are also other color functions than those we looked at earlier.
For example the HWB function allows us to define our color using HWB HWB stands for Heugh whiteness
blackness.
Let's give our text the color value using the HWB function.
We will add the function name and the opening and closing parentheses and then go step by step through
each of the parameters.
This function takes four parameters the first three parameters are required.
The first parameter of this function is the Heugh similar to the H.S. cell function.
We supply the Hew as a value on the color wheel from 0 to 360.
We will pass a value of 240 and for the hue of the color.
The second parameter of this function is the value of a certain amount of white.
That will be mixed in with the hue given as a percent out of 100 with the percent sign after it.
We will give our function a whiteness value of 15 percent.
The third parameter of this function is the amount of black to be mixed in with the hue.
It is given as a percent and as the percent sign after it we will give our element of blackness value
of 15 percent optional.
You can also supply an alpha value in the range of 0 to 1 as a decimal value.
Let's make our color half transparent by assigning an alpha value of 0.5 to see the result of the color
we just created using the HWB function.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code
in the next lecture we will learn about saturation and how we can apply it to images using CSF.